So I showed you a very
simple way of adding stuff,
but the ad I showed you was kind of lying
because it fixed the location in memory,
where we basically were adding constants,
right?
And that's not a real thing.
So let's do a more realistic example.
Okay, so a more realistic example
is that we have basically
a program section and a data section.
So in the program section we
have our code does the stuff and
in the data section we just have our data.
This is where we store our local
variables, your objects, etc, right?
Now modern CPUs.
Okay, before we actually go there,
you can imagine that you can easily get
yourself in trouble and
have the CPU start executing data.
And then all kinds of
hell will break loose.
Usually the computer will crash.
But if the code is malicious, maybe I
can manipulate the data to look like
Instructions that do stuff that the CPU
isn't supposed to be doing, right.
And that's basically where
a lot of the exploits come
in which is that you overwrite a buffer
basically the software assumes
that the data is receiving is this big but
you send that that big.
And so, you overwrite the section over
here because the receiving software is not
well guarded against this.
And then,
this thing over here happens to be code
that the program actually that's running.
And by overwriting the program, all of
a sudden you get to control the stuff.
This is how many of the issues happen
around, you send somebody JPEG and
it's executable.
Well, some setting was incorrect.
Things got overwritten when
they weren't supposed to.
The parsing program was not clean enough
in terms of making sure that everything
was correct.
It overwrote stuff that it wasn't supposed
to, and then it executed it later, and
then all hell breaks loose.
So modern CPUs have things
like memory management,
where you separate out see a memory
section and say this you're
allowed to execute, but you're not allowed
to write into it or read on it, or
the only reads that can happen is out
of the program counter, no other way.
You can mark pages as data only,
meaning that you're not allowed
to execute any code in here.
So modern CPUs have this and that helps
certainly with a lot of tricks but
still we see issues all
the time about this.
And this is why low level
languages like C and C++ and
an assembly are kind of dangerous
because they allow you to do anything.
It's their power but
also their downfall and
this is why our rust is becoming
popular is because rust has compiled
some guarantees that the memory
will not be overwritten.
And because of that it's much
more difficult if not I mean I
guess you could say in theory
impossible to get something
wrong in Rust in terms of your exploits,
right.
Whereas it's relatively easy in C.
Again, JavaScript is
also a managed language.
You don't have to worry about memory.
You don't have to worry about overriding
things because the VM hopefully was
written correctly, and
won't allow you to do any of these things.
So we have now a code section and
a data section.
The way this would work is that we have
a special register called an address
register.
And this register we load 13.
What's 13?
Well it's just a location of
this if you start counting
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 this is 13.
Now you can see how this is a problem like
I'm supposed to remember that's 13 like
that's craziness right so
we'll talk about it in a second.
So that's 13 and here is next instruction.
So this is a second register called AE0.
Again, I'm making these things up.
The actual CPU registers have different
names over the years, whatever,
that's not important.
But fundamentally, they work the same way.
And this is an offset.
So in this particular case,
we're saying, look,
13 is the location where the data is,
and I'm interested in the 0th offset.
So 0 plus 13 is the address
I'm interested in, right?
And from this location,
I'm gonna load the A0 plus AE0 to R0.
So I'm gonna take the value 3 and
move it into the R0 register, right?
Now I'm gonna load a new constant into A0,
which is 1.
And I'm gonna run the same
exact instruction to say,
now fetch the next thing, and
now I'm gonna fetch 5, right?
And now I can do a basic
operation of addition.
And now I have to do the reverse
now I have to load yet
another address where I want to store
something and in this case I'm gonna
say you can now store the R0 to
the address of A0 plus AE0, right?
And now you get the output.
So let's run this.
So if I run this, let's see.
So you can see the memory before,
oops, the memory before we have here,
and you can see that there's a 0 and
5 and a 0 location, and
then after the code was finished running,
there's an 8.
All right, and you can follow along
basically what's happening in here.
And so the simplest possible CPU you
can imagine, basically has two general
purpose registers which will just call
R0 and R1 and has a special address and
address extend or offset register
that you can see over here.
This basically stores like your
base address of something.
And this store is the offset and then you
can do lookups by the base plus offset.
Now if you're looking at this you should
be going, gee, this looks very familiar.
What does it look like?
Does this reminds you of array access?
Where the A0 contains
the pointer to the array and
AE0 contains the offset of
an element in an array.
>> Yeah.
>> Right?
And so, this is why when you talk about
CPUs you have to kind of realize like on
end of the day everything
is just the array access.
So the CPU really deals with
everything as array offsets.
And so we can do basic operations so what
I've shown you is how to load data how
to kind of think about it that the CPUs
have a code section and a Data section.
And so
let's build something more complicated.
Let's go to the next level up.